# PredictingSemanticOrientationOfCommunication
Sentiment Analysis involves determining the evaluative nature of a piece of text. For example, a message or post review on social network can express a positive, negative, or neutral sentiment (or polarity). Automatically identifying sentiment expressed in text has a number of applications, including tracking sentiment towards products, movies, politicians, etc., improving customer relation models, detecting happiness and well-being, and improving automatic dialogue systems. In our sentiment analysis system, we are utilizing three freely available, manually created,general-purpose sentiment lexicons. In addition, we are generating two high-coverage sentiment lexicons from about 2.5 million corpus using sentiment markers within them. These lexicons capture many peculiarities of the social media language. such as commonintentional and unintentional miss-spellings (e.g., gr8, lovin, coul, holys**t),elongations (e.g., yesssss, mmmmmmm, uugghh), and abbreviations (e.g., lmao, wtf ). They also include words that are not usually considered to be expressing sentiment, but that are often associated withpositive/negative feelings (e.g., party, birthday, vulgar). This Project describes a state-of-the-art sentiment analysis system addressing two tasks: (a) Detecting the sentiment of short informal textual messages (message-level task). (b) Detecting the sentiment of a word or a phrase within a message (term-level task).The system is based on a supervised statistical text classification approach [1] leveraging a variety of surface-form, semantic, and sentiment features. Given only limited amounts of training data, statistical sentiment analysis systems often benefit from the use of manually or automatically built sentiment lexicons. Sentiment lexicons are lists of words (and phrases) with prior associations to positive and negative sentiments. Some lexicons can additionally provide a sentiment score for a term to indicate its strength of evaluative intensity. Higher scores indicate greater intensity. For example, an entry great (positive, 1.2) states that the word great has positive polarity with the sentiment score of 1.2. An entry acceptable (positive, 0.1) specifies that the word acceptable has positive polarity and its intensity is lower than that of the word great.
